##Homework 1 Blog Post

A lot of different descriptions can be applied to what a data scientist actually is, but I see the role as pertaining to someone who tries to tell a story through data. Data scientists look at utilizing computer science and a keen understanding of statistics to find patterns or reasoning behind large sums of data, often times helping to visualize it through different plots and models. Behind every data set, there is someone frantically trying to decipher what it actually means, and, in most cases, trying to show someone else why it matters. I see the major duties and knowledge areas of being a data scientist as having a good understanding of computer science, statistics, and machine learning. Moreover, I think the major duties stem from looking at data and being able to not only import and clean it, but understand the significance of what it actually is trying to tell. Its essential to have a strong understanding of the fields stated above, but also a mindset of trying to understand what questions the data is trying to answer. Between statisticians and data scientists, there are a lot of differences, mainly in model development. Statisticians try to iterate on one model, while data scientists construct multiple models to see which one can properly test new data being read in. From learning about mathematical statistics and data science, I have also grown to see how vague statisticians can be when dealing with experimental design or picking specific estimates or intervals for a subset of data. In contrast, data scientists deal with big data and cut it down to one aspect they want to focus on, and visualize it in a way to explain to others. Both fields deal with data processing, just in different ways. As for me, I view myself as more of a data analyst rather than a scientist right now. Forecasting data and visualizing it in a number of plots is my bread and butter, as well as what I currently do for my job. However, machine learning and model fitting has always been a very interesting concept to me, and I definitely lean more towards being a data scientist rather than a statistician in the future.
